# NTAC minutes, 29 November 2022

## [Teams meeting link](https://dod.teams.microsoft.us/l/meetup-join/19%3adod%3ameeting_027b8f8cd305438fbb0a76a1e7896d97%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22102d0191-eeae-4761-b1cb-1a83e86ef445%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2270ae69c4-ba53-4071-b60d-68a8b321854e%22%7d)

## [Agenda](2022-11-29-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis

**Previous minutes:**  Minutes for [2022-11-22](2022-11-22-minutes.md) were approved.

## Action item review

**From 2022-11-22**

- [ ] All, review Scott Renner dummy [NTAC-SPECIFICATIONS]() repo
- [ ] Get with Chet Ensign and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble,
- [ ] All, review Scott Renner minutes repo
- [ ] All, review literals document
- [ ] Mike Douklias to schedule the calls on the OASIS calendar

**From 2022-11-15:**

- [ ] Tom Carlson: Review existing NTAC repo to determine what should move over to new NIEM Open NTAC repo  

## OASIS

### OASIS Release Process

- [ ] All, review Scott Renner demo repo
  - Duncan Sparrell: Want separate repos for different things to be approved
    - There's a benefit to grouping things together in a repo that get approved together
  - Christina Medlin: Can we get keywords on the index page?
  - Chet Ensign: Most folks just look back to the prior week, but sometimes folks do need to look back to find things
  - Scott Renner: Separate repos for each specifications is how we did it in the past
  - Jim Cabral: one repo for model, one for each spec
  - Duncan Sparrell: Also need ones for:
    - Tools that use the model
    - Public facing pretty repo that provides a one-stop to get to everything else
  - Jim Cabral: obvious ones
    - Minutes
    - Model
  - Duncan Sparrell: And the NDR
  - Christina Medlin: Want comments on 6.0
  - Duncan Sparrell: Old stuff can be throw out, has happen in the past
  - Scott Renner: Won't be making changed to NDR 5.0, either it gets approved or is doesn't
  - Jim Cabral: Whoever owns it now contributes it to the new repo
  - [ ] Give Chet Ensign a list of names for the repos we need created
  - Jim Cabral:
    - `NIEM-Models`
    - `NTAC-Admin`
    - `NIEM-Conformance-Targets-Attribute-Specification` (This is the oldest used thing that won't change.)
    - `NIEM-Naming-Design-Rules-Specification`
- [ ] Get with Chet Ensign and see how we have to mash up the spec text to match the rules, some preamble to apply
  - Need to request formatting templates https://www.oasis-open.org/project-administration-support-requests/form-request-template-starter-document/
  - Formatting while also adding some required text
- [x] All, review Scott Renner minutes repo
- [ ] All, review [literals document](../documents/Literals-221124.md)
- #resolved Do not record meetings

### OASIS Calendar

- [ ] Mike Douklias to schedule the calls on the OASIS calendar

## NIEM 5.2 Release

- Do we also do a normal release along with or ahead of the OASIS release?
- Existing commitment to December release, OASIS-only release could delay that
- #resolved This isn't an OASIS issue. This is between GTRI and JS J6. But is prep for OASIS

## IP

- [x] Tom Carlson: Look at the current licensing for the spec generation tools, can we just fork and contribute?
- [x] Tom Carlson: Determine the licensing around the Schematron in the spec

### Spec Generation Tools License

> This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
>
> This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General Public License for more details.
>
> You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this program. If not, see [http://www.gnu.org/licenses/](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/).

Jim Cabral: Is GPL 3 one of the OASIS approved ones? If not, then it can't be contributed.
Chet Ensign: Not on the list. Will discuss with [[Jamie Clark]]

[Open Source](https://opensource.org/licenses)


### Schematron

- No license in the Schematron packaged with the NDR
- No license in the NDR source

## New Business

- [ ] Check that Duncan Sparrell is on the list 
