
# NTAC meeting agenda (6 December 2022)

## Review and Approve Minutes

[Minutes for 2022-11-29](2022-11-29-minutes.md)

## Action item review

**From 2022-11-29**

- [ ] Give Chet Ensign a list of names for the repos we need created
- [ ] Check that Duncan Sparrell is on the list

**From 2022-11-22**

- [ ] All, review Scott Renner dummy [NTAC-SPECIFICATIONS]() repo
- [ ] Get with Chet Ensign and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble,
- [ ] All, review literals document
- [ ] Mike Douklias to schedule the calls on the OASIS calendar

**From 2022-11-15:**

- [ ] Tom Carlson: Review existing NTAC repo to determine what should move over to new NIEM Open NTAC repo  

## OASIS

### Repos

- Repos should be created (scheduled for Monday)
- Are there lingering questions regarding which license to use for which repo?

### Spec Generation Tools License

- Assuming the tools cannot be contributed, what is the way ahead in a potential post-GTRI world?
	- Tools could still be made available outside OASIS
	- Convert to Markdown as the source?
- What the tools do:
	- Allow you to use the NDR as a conformance checking tool, using the embedded Schematron. Is that useful? Well… no.
	- Let you do M4 macros, primarily string replacement. So if some string is used a ton, you can put it in a macro and have it auto-replaced. Most of the macros, though, are only replaced once or maybe twice. It’s not leveraged much and a manual search/replace would do the same job.
	- Do all sorts of reference work. You tag things and refer to them elsewhere, and it generates the correct text for that taking into account dynamically generated section numbers. The NDR, especially, is heavily hyperlinked. This touches so many things: References to other documents, references to figures, references to the glossary.

## NIEM 5.2 RC 1

- [ ] All, review NIEM 5.2 RC 1 release, comments due by Tuesday

## Literals Document

- [literals document](../documents/Literals-221124.md)
- [[Literals-Dr-Scott]]

## New business

