# NTAC minutes, 13 December 2022

## [Agenda](2022-12-13-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

**Previous minutes:**  Minutes for [2022-12-06](2022-12-06-minutes.md) were approved.

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-06**

- [x] Create ad hoc subcomittee for spec generation tool licence issues?
- [x] Review NIEM 5.2 RC 1
- [ ] Determine what the new NIEM model repo should look like [Tom, Christina]

**From 2022-11-22**

- [ ] Get with Chet Ensign and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble,
- [ ] All, review literals document

## Literals Document

- [literals document](../documents/Literals-221124.md)
- Christina Medlin What about applying security markings (IC-ISM)?
- Jim Cabral And code lists?
- Scott Renner Look into how [[ISM]] markings could work in JSON. Have the ISM folks done anything with JSON?
- Christina Medlin Can we smarten the subsetting to simplify where it can, so that only folks who need the attributes in certain places need to deal with the extra classing?

## OASIS Repos

- How are they going to look?
- Can we just keep the current way, using tags to mark releases?
  - This is straightforward and provides a persistent link to a persistent version
  - Separate tagging for OASIS vs "Classic"?
    - e.g. `niem-5.2` and `niemopen-5.2`
- What's the procedure for a [[PSD]] vis-a-vis the repo?
  - Someone in the NMO needs to contribute the document to the repo
  - Maintainer needs to go through some approval process
- [ ] Scott Renner to contribute Conformance Target spec to `niem-conformance-targets` repo on the `main` branch and do pull request
- [ ] Tom Carlson or Christina Medlin to approve

- for notes and minutes
  - pull request, approve in the next call, approve/edit the pull in-call
  - Chair makes pull request, main maintainers do the acceptance

## OASIS and Licensing

- Using CC BY 4.0 for non-code repos (_not_ CC BY SA 4.0)
- Spec Gen Tool licensing initial review
  - Mostly Webb Roberts original work, all under GPL3, copyrighted GTRI
  - Fork of [schematron-impl](https://github.com/webb/schematron-impl/blob/0bb9777581d3becd5da4012e4f40c5510ee6e547/LICENSE) which is MIT
  - Copy of [schematron-schema](https://github.com/webb/schematron-schema/blob/c2615ad606da480a5b09940a5b2913ee106a3c83/LICENSE) which is custom

## New Business

- None