# NTAC minutes (15 November 2022)

## [Agenda](2022-11-15-agenda.md)

## **Attending**:

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [x] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

**Previous minutes:**  Minutes for [2022-10-25](2022-10-25-minutes.md) and [2022-11-08](2022-11-08-minutes.md) were approved.

## **Release process for NIEM 5.2**

- What is the process under OASIS?
- What is the minimum we can do with 5.2 and still have an OASIS product?
- What is the timeline for PGB notification before 5.2 release candidate?

(Jim Cabral) For the release process discussion, here is a draft mapping and RACI matrix of the historic NIEM release process artifacts to NIEM Open Project artifacts:

| Historic NIEM Release Artifact | Open Project Artifact       | Participant | Contributor | Maintainer | TSC  | OP Administrator | PGB  | OASIS Members | Public |
| ------------------------------ | --------------------------- | ----------- | ----------- | ---------- | ---- | ---------------- | ---- | ------------- | ------ |
|                                | Branch (Github)             | C           | C/R         | A          | C/R  | I                | I    | I             | I      |
| Alpha                          | Designated Branch           | C           | C           | R          | A    | I                | I    | I             | I      |
| Beta                           | Release/Group Release       | C           | C           | C          | R    | I                | A    | I             | I      |
| Release Candidate              | Project Specification Draft | C           | C           | C          | R    | C                | A    | I             | I      |
| Release                        | Project Specification       | I           | I           | C          | R    | C                | A    | I             | I      |
|                                | Candidate OASIS Standard    | I           | I           | I          | R    | C                | A    | I             | I      |
|                                | OASIS Standard              | I           | I           | I          | I    | C                | R    | A             | C      |

A RACI matrix is a responsibility matrix.

- A: Approver
- C: Contributor / Consulted on the decisions
- I: Informed
- R: Responsible

OASIS Open Projects have the concept of a designated branch.  We expect this branch to be the one of interest, that will move forward to a project specification or standard.

To move an OASIS release to a Project Specification Draft (PSD), it must go out for public review.  PGB can move a PSD forward to a Project Specification (PS).  A traditional NIEM release corresponds to an OASIS PS.

According to the table above, Alpha would be approved by the TSCs.  Beta, RC, and the final release would need to be approved by the PGB.

We might also consolidate the Beta and RC phases.  If we replace the old NIEM Beta phase with a PSD, the community would have a chance to review and provide comments while we still have time during the release process to address them.  After alpha, publish further phases as Project Specification Drafts until we all issues are resolved.

Another option would be to let the NTAC and NBAC approve alpha, beta, and the initial RC as checkpoints in a designated branch and move to the PSD only once we think its stable.

## **CMF and CMFTool status**

- New document: [Literals and simple types in NIEM 6](Literals-221124.md)
- Dr. Scott has pushed a new release of the CMF Tool (version 0.6)

## **New business**

None

## **Action items**

**2022-11-08**

- [ ] (Aubrey) Remove Dee Schur from NTAC mailing list (retired)
- [ ] (Jim) Will look at release BPMN diagrams and will work on updating terminology for OASIS
- [x] (Tom) Send meeting notes to Dr. Scott
- [x] (Dr. Scott) Will work on meeting minutes for last week and this week
- [x] (Tom) Add consider OASIS process for NIEM specs to next week's agenda

**2022-11-15**

- [ ] (Tom) Review existing NTAC repo to determine what should move over to new NIEM Open NTAC repo
- [ ] (Dr. Scott) Meeting minutes approved, make corresponding updates, push new minutes
- [ ] (NTAC) Review literals document for next week's meeting [link](https://github.com/iamdrscott/NTAC-DRAFT/blob/main/meetings/2022-11-15/Literals-221124.md)****
