# 2023-02-07 NTAC TSC Call Agenda

[NTAC calendar](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-ntactsc/calendar)

[NTAC meeting link on Teams](https://dod.teams.microsoft.us/l/meetup-join/19%3adod%3ameeting_027b8f8cd305438fbb0a76a1e7896d97%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22102d0191-eeae-4761-b1cb-1a83e86ef445%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2270ae69c4-ba53-4071-b60d-68a8b321854e%22%7d)

## Review and Approve Minutes

- [2023-01-31 minutes (draft)](2023-01-31-minutes.md)

## Managing the NTAC

- Need documented processes for managing technical contributions to the NTAC to ensure compliance with OASIS open-source rules?
  - Kanban boards
  - Github issues
  - Return to monthly calls for committee administration, with weekly working group calls

## NIEMOpen Process Document

- [Latest draft available](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/niem-pubs-v1.0-pn01/niem-pubs-v1.0-pn01.md)
- [Issues still to be incorporated](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/issues)

Domain updates outside the normal publication schedule as just another section here called "Domain Updates," perhaps in a separate document?

**Topics for discussion**:

1.  We should publish an authoritative list of specifications included in NIEM 6. Should they be listed here or in a separate project note?
    - Organization README on Github may fit the bill (via [[Christina Medlin|CM]])
 2.  NIEM versions do _not_ include software
     - Still need to say something about the tooling in this document
3.  Tag format is resolved
    *  Plain number for the latest "blessed" versions; e.g. "5.2", "6.0"
    *  Use semantic versioning as needed, for errata; e.g. "6.0.1"
    *  Use additional hyphen-tags for OASIS-specific tags; e.g. "6.0-psd1" for the first PSD
	*  Same tagging style for technical specifications 
	

## Literals and Attribute Augmentations

- New paper from [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] coming soon
- [ ] All: Read the [[AttributeAugmentations-230105]] document, comments to [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]
- Focus on attribute wildcards

## Understanding the NIEM Technical Architecture Document

- Background information for new members
- Next steps?

## NDR 6 Planning

- Proposal to simplify by
  - focusing on the critical conformance targets
  - streamlining the principles and combining rules where possible
  - keeping Schematron for conformance use, but not embedded in the NDR
- Scope of changes provides an opportunity to abandon the specification generation toolset
- Timeline: Need the normative content nailed down by summer
- NDR and other specs to be converted to Markdown now, for collaboration later

### Issues to Discuss:

#### NDR Structure

- Separate into conceptual base document related to CMF
- Bindings for each new serialization
  - Includes information model things like cardinality
  - NIEM 6 XML Binding (representation format)
  - NIEM 6 JSON Binding (representation format)
- Do the NDR first, then the bindings

#### Should the NDR retain Schematron as the normative expression of the rules?

- Retain for XML Schema validation?
  - Embedded in the NIEM 6 XML Binding?
  - Separate document?
- Not needed for CMF validation as we don't expect people to work directly with CMF
- Is there anything similar for JSON Schema?
  - Will JSON developers even bother with extension JSON Schemas?

## New Business

- TBD

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
	- In the future
