# NTAC minutes, 18 July 2023

## [Agenda](2023-07-18-agenda.md)

## Attending

No record kept

## **Previous minutes**  

[Minutes for 2023-07-11](2023-07-11-minutes.md) approved without change.

## NDR overhaul

* [Architecture changes PND](https://docs.oasis-open.org/niemopen/niem-6.0-arch-changes/v1.0/pnd01/) published.
* Two new discussions
  * [URIs and IDs and REFs, Oh My!](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/63)
  * [NIEM models in XSD and CMF](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/64)
* Next steps
  * Produce multiple docs, info model (Base) + serialization/format specific "Bindings", e.g. XML and JSON
    * Pull out the XML Schematron
    * Rewrite Schematron for CMF where appropriate
  * [ ] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to tackle Base
    * describe the metamodel in UML
    * then convert that to CMF
    * [[David Kemp|Dave Kemp]] This is all the info model stuff
  * [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] to tackle JSON/JSON-LD Binding, mostly new
    - Existing JSON-LD spec is a mix of definitional and guidance, keep that?
    - Still strict vs lax conformity?
  * Maybe XML Binding is deferred pending the parsing of the existing NDR into Base and XML Binding
  * By end of July, get things moved into the appropriate target documents, with notes as to what still needs to be done, linking to proposed changes

## NIEM to Incorporate other standards by reference

- Deferred to 6.1?
- #resolved Remove from future agendas

## Agenda items for 27 July PGB meeting

- Communicate Arch Changes doc with PGB, not approval but comments are welcome
- Communicate general direction of NDR development

## OASIS Namespace Review

- Why the hashes at the end of the URIs?
  - Convention?
  - [URI fragment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/URI_fragment)
  - #resolved Leave in the hashes for now until we get some examples, add to future agendas

## Towards a NIEM Information Model

- [NSA collab with NIST](https://pages.nist.gov/metaschema/)
- Will delay [[David Kemp|Dave Kemp]] applying this to NIEM
- But will collab on defining the base, which is heading this direction, i.e. to an info model
