# 2023-01-31 NTAC TSC Call Agenda

[NTAC calendar](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-ntactsc/calendar)

[NTAC meeting link on Teams](https://dod.teams.microsoft.us/l/meetup-join/19%3adod%3ameeting_027b8f8cd305438fbb0a76a1e7896d97%40thread.v2/0?context=%7b%22Tid%22%3a%22102d0191-eeae-4761-b1cb-1a83e86ef445%22%2c%22Oid%22%3a%2270ae69c4-ba53-4071-b60d-68a8b321854e%22%7d)

## Review and Approve Minutes

- [2023-01-24 minutes (draft)](2023-01-24-minutes.md)

## PGB Recap

- Approved:
  - Charter Amendment regarding contribution of NIEM tools
  - TSC Expert Voting Members aapointed by TSC on a rotating basis
  - TSC co-chairs are invited to attend PGB meetings
  - TSCs can approve TSC memberships (PGB can remove)
  - TSCs can create new repos
  - CTAS as PSD
- Concur:
  - NIEM 5.2 will published at niem.gov and contributed
  - TSCs will issue NIEM 6.0 under the OP
  - NBAC will establish Domain subcommittees

## CMF and JADN
  - Discussion

## NIEMOpen Process Document

- [Initial draft available](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/d26aa2f70de50b43ba718b60f5075aa6952e4672/documents/niem-pubs-v1.0-pn01/niem-pubs-v1.0-pn01.md)
- [Issues still to be incorporated](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/issues)

## Understanding the NIEM Technical Architecture Document

- Discussion?
- Next steps

## NDR 6 Planning

- Proposal to simplify by
	- focusing on the critical conformance targets
	- streamlining the principles and combining rules where possible
	- keeping Schematron for conformance use, but not embedded in the NDR
- Scope of changes provides an opportunity to abandon the specification generation toolset
- Timeline: Need the normative content nailed down by summer

### Three Issues to Discuss:

#### Everything in the NDR?

- Separate into conceptual vs serialization?
	- relate conceptual to CMF
	- information model adds things like cardinality
	- separate XML Schema specific rules
	- don't need NDR for conceptual
	- do need a NDR for CMF
	- do need rules/NDR for XML Schema and for JSON
- Bindings for each new serialization, e.g. UML or whatever
	- NIEM 6 NDR
	- NIEM 6 XML Binding (representation format)
	- NIEM 6 JSON Binding (representation format)
	- Do the NDR first, then the bindings

#### Should the NDR retain Schematron as the normative expression of the rules?

- For XML Schema validation?
- For CMF validation?
- As a separate document

#### Abandon the Spec Generation Tools?

- [[Tom Carlson]] taking initial attempt at converting the current NDR HTML to Markdown
	- Promising so far
- Enables collaboration on the Markdown
- Removes dependency on GTRI to edit specs
- Removes any issues about tool licenses

## Literals and Attribute Augmentations

Proposed fix via an approach to ISM attributes that will work equally well for anyone else who needs attribute augmentations: [[AttributeAugmentations-230105]]

- [ ] All: Read the document, comments to [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]
- Focus on attribute wildcards
- [[Christina Medlin|CM]]:
	- Setting up a 2nd way to do augmentations
	- 2 ways to do the same thing
	-  Allowing attribute wildcards opens the question of why don't we do that for elements?
	- On literals still an issue
	- [[Scott Renner]]: From F2F, make it an object if you want that
- [[David Kemp|Dave Kemp]] Don't have the security markings at the lowest level of granularity. There's a floor below which you don't want to apply them.


## Other Items


## Action item review

**From 2023-01-24**

- [x] Request creation of a repo for "common-model-format", then [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to contribute something

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
	- In the future
