# NTAC minutes, 17 October 2023 (draft)

No agenda prepared in advance.

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [x] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson

## Status update

* Dr. Scott is back to work after medical leave
* GTRI expected back on contract in 1-2 weeks
* 3 issues from the 6.0 model review, 3 issues
  * ncic codes – jim to figure out what to change, shunda to make changes
  * external URIs – Scott to fix
  * other ncic codes left for 6.1
* What is the right format of PSD01 package for PGB vote?
  * Chet:  cover page "NIEM 6.0 model" with links
  * Use link to particular commit in model repo

## PGB meeting prep

* NTAC to provide one-page status summary slide
* NBAC intends to present status of 6.0 model
