# NTAC minutes, 17 January 2023

## [Agenda](2023-01-10-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [x] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [x] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

Minutes were revised:  (1) clarify that NTAC recommends PGB approve CTAS *as a PSD*; (2) the specification consolidation point will actually be maintained by OASIS, not NTAC.  [Revised minutes](2023-01-10-minutes.md) were approved.

## CTAS

The revised draft following OASIS is prepared.  No material changes.  Posted to repo.  NTAC agreed to recommend PGB approve this draft as a PSD.

## PS/PSD/Standard Process Recommendation

First draft accepted as a discussion paper.  Next draft to be an NTAC publication, currently titled the *NIEM Open Process* document.  Jim Cabral and Chrisina Medlin to edit next draft.  Everyone to review and send comments/changes to the mailing list; editors to resolve comments and prepare next draft.

## Discussion papers

### [Simple content and literal properties (2022-11-24)](../documents/Literals-221124.md) 

Scott Renner is still collecting comments.  Are there any more?

### [Attribute augmentations and IC-ISM in NIEM 6 (2023-01-18)](../documents/AttributeAugmentations-230118.md)

First discussion.  David Kemp suggested huge simplifications that would probably be great if we had a clean sheet of paper, but aren't workable given our commitment to continuity with the existing NIEM community.  Everyone to review and send comments to Scott Renner

## NDR 6 Planning

Jim Cabral sent a spreadsheet mapping the rules to principals in NDR 5.  We might simplify NDR 6 by focusing on the critical conformance targets, streamlining the principles and combining rules where possible.  Some rules feel arbitrary, why do we need them if they aren't tied to principles?  Writing the normative rules in Schematron means a large number of rules, one per component.  Perhaps we can save some effort by first refocusing the scope of the NDR and avoid migrating content that doesn’t really matter.

## Action item review

**From 2022-12-20**

- [ ] Assess asset/artifact inventory; determine who "owns" which artifacts
  - In the future

**From 2022-12-13**

- [x] [[Tom Carlson]] to modify CTAS format

**From 2022-12-06**

- [x] [[Tom Carlson]] and [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Determine what the new NIEM model repo should look like

**From 2022-11-22**

- [x] Get with [[Chet Ensign]] and see how we have to mash up the text to match the rules, some preamble, for the specs to match OASIS requirements

