# NTAC minutes, 25 July 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-07-25-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Beth Smalley
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson

## **Previous minutes**  

[Minutes for 2023-06-27](2023-06-27-minutes.md) were not available for review.

## PGB meeting preparation

* Jim: Socialize new Project Note Draft for NIEM 6.0 Architectural Changes
* Duncan: Unable to attend PGB and present motion to make NIEM 5.2 an OASIS release.  Jim will present the motion.
* Jim: Will update the PGB on the NDR schedule

## NDR Overhaul

**Schedule concerns**

3.5 months to refactor the NDR is a huge task, and resources are limited.

Proposals:

- Option 1: Just update the current NDR 5.0 with the 6.0 changes for the end of the year.  Do not refactor.
- Option 2: Refactor and target a NDR PSD instead of a PS for the end of the year

Discussion:

- Jim: Concerns about JSON support if we only have a XML-based NDR
- Duncan: Concerned about moving the date.  Concern about slipping JSON support for 3 years (next major version).  Prefer moving the date out several months.  Worried that work would stop until we get close to the deadline again.
- Jennifer: Wants to pitch CMF Tool to ANSI/NIST.  Needs more for a pitch - what's on the website is not enough.  May need to do a demo.
- Jim: There's demand for getting this done now.  Do we have the resources? *no volunteers to update the spec*
- Proposed schedule for option 2:
  - Model schemas as PSD in September.  NDR dependencies are updated Schematron rules and updated utility schemas.  NDR text can continue to be updated later.
  - Model schemas submitted to PGB as PS in November
  - NDR submitted to PGB as PSD in November
- Katherine: Politically, need to get the release out.  Very important as major version with CMF.  May want to re-prioritize existing tasks. Would prefer more analysis.  (Further scheduling discussion)  Okay with option 2 if we can get the model out this year.

NTAC decision: Option 2.  Refactored NDR as PSD and model schemas as PS submitted to PGB by Nov 15.

Jim: NTAC will brief this as part of their PGB update

## OASIS Namespace Review

- [Namespace URIs (discussion #65)](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/65)
- Original reason that the trailing slash was added to the uris probably no longer exists.  The uris used to resolve to a folder, not an individual file.  The 5.0 package reorganization changed this.
- *Resolved*: End URIs with just a trailing #, not a trailing slash

## New business

**Discussion topics**

NTAC needs to review and comment on recent discussion topics:

- [URIs and IDs and REFs, Oh My! (#63)](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/63)
- [NIEM models in XSD and CMF (#64)](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/64)

**Rotating NTAC representative to the PGB**

- Jim: At some point, do we have to rotate the NTAC representative to the PGB?
- Steve: Jan 2023 is when we started with committee PGB reps
- Jim: Would like to make sure Dr. Scott has the opportunity to be the rep.
- Dr. Scott: Happy with Jim as rep.
- Steve: Just make sure if we need to change, notify Steve / PGB beforehand

**Membership**

Jennifer: Accepted a new position at a different agency, this my be her last NTAC session.  Email address will change.  Josh Wilson will take over her spot for the NTAC and NBAC.  Still working out the FBI rep for the PGB.
