# NTAC minutes, 25 April 2023

## [Agenda](2023-04-25-agenda.md)

## Attending

It appears no one made a list of attendees, alas.

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-04-18](2023-04-18-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Publication process PN

No feedback received so far.  

Christina Medlin added a reference to the OASIS process for creating an OASIS standard.

*Resolved:* hold vote to approve current draft at the May 2nd NTAC meeting.

## NDR overhaul

Do we need a repo for our "What's new in NIEM 6 document?"  It's going to be a PN, so we don't.

*Resolved:* The What's-New PN wil be an evolving, working document, written in parallel with the NDR.

*Resolved:* First draft of What's-New PN in mid-May; first PN publication end-May.

## CMFTool

Latest version will be pushed to the "develop" branch in the [cmftool repo](https://github.com/niemopen/cmftool) by the next meeting.  

Visible changes:  code list instance properties, code list schema appinfo, representation of augmentations in CMF, 

Next change will be support for generating NIEM 6 reference and message XSD from CMF.

## New business

A proposal to publish the NIEM 5.2 model as a PSD.  This requires some sort of cover document that references the machine-readable content.  Perhaps we don't need a 5.2 PSD; perhaps we only need a NIEM 5.2 OASIS release.

- [ ] Duncan Sparrell will modify the existing README file as needed for the PSD cover
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell to check with Chet Ensign to see if an OASIS release is good enough

Duncan Sparrell has made a pull request to the NIEM model to add a new local term to the NIEM Cyber domain.  Info for NTAC; really an NBAC issue.

## Action Item Review

- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Wildcard Augmentations
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Technical Architecture Project Note
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of NDR Overhaul

- [x] Ping NBAC on Publication Process Project Note
- [ ] Add project note folders where needed
- [ ] Add the deadline for the NIEM 6.0 Architectural Changes Project Note to the project board
