# NTAC minutes, 27 June 2023

## [Agenda](2023-06-27-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Beth Smalley
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-06-20](2023-06-20-minutes.md) approved without change.

## NIEM6 Architectural Changes PN

*Resolved:*  Approve [NIEM 6.0 Architectural Changes Version 1.0 (27 June 2023)](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/project-notes/docs/niem-6.0-arch-changes/niem-6.0-arch-changes-v1.0-pn01.md#niem-60-architectural-changes-version-10) as a Project Note Draft.  Announce on NBAC mailing list.  At next NBAC meeting, ask for NBAC review (as part of NTAC update).

Plan for public review of second draft in a month.

Action items:

- [ ] [[Steve Sullivan]] Point the NBAC at the link for it, send to NBAC mailing list
- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] address at the meeting as part of NTAC update
  - [ ] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] Send the link to [[Steve Sullivan]] when ready
- [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] Publish draft 1 via OASIS link: https://www.oasis-open.org/project-administration-support-requests/form-publish-a-draft-document/

## NDR and External Standards

Report from harmonization committee:  They want support for external standards by reference â€“ meaning, use the external standard, don't redefine it.  Support through adapter types is OK.

NIEM currently supports blobs of external data inside a NIEM message.  In our experience those blobs are small, but they can be of any size.  NIEM 6 will retain that support.  Agreed this is good enough to close the NIEM model issues (#28-33).

It may be possible to reuse definitions from an external standard without the overhead of an adapter type.  This requires more thought and is something to come after 6.0 publication.

_Resolved:_ Cancel next NTAC TSC call due to July 4th holiday



