# NTAC minutes, 21 March 2023

## [Agenda](2023-03-21-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] Beth Smalley
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-03-14](2023-03-14-minutes.md) were approved without change

## Review of OASIS documents call

*Resolved:* We need to use "niemopen" (not "niem") in the document URIs.  

We can keep the URIs in schema documents as they are.

Terminology 

- psd01 to psd02 is a "revision"
- "major releases" are "versions"

## Publication process PN

Christina Medlin still has a few changes to complete.  Hope for a review draft next week.

Duncan Sparrell:  What is the name of the thing before the PSD?  It would be a "working draft (WD)" in a TC.  

*Resolved:*  We will use "WD" for this.

## Wildcard augmentations

Scott Renner says he is persuaded that we do not need element wildcards for augmentations.  Next version of CMFTool will have attribute wildcards.  It will not have metadata attributes; it will rely on augmentation instead.

We cand and should support Schematron validation for reference attribute wildcard type checking.

## Technical architecture PN

No progress.  We keep thinking of new sections to add.  [Current working draft](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/project-notes/docs/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02.md) is available.

## NDR overhaul

Several principles can move to the technical architecture PN.  Everyone please consider which principles should make the move.

Scott Renner said that the existing NDR is mainly about how to use XSD as a modeling formalism.  We will still need NDR for that in NIEM 6.  We may also need NDR for using CMF as a modeling formalism.  But we don't need NDR for, say, JSON Schema, because we aren't supporting that as a modeling formalism.  So perhaps the right NDR split is:

* NDR for XSD
* NDR for CMF

Duncan Sparrel asked about external namespaces; eg. how to use STIX definitions in a NIEM model.  Scott Renner said that with CMF we will (eventually) be able to distill a CMF model of STIX, make use of STIX definitions in NIEM-based message specifications, even generate JSON that looks like STIX JSON.

Christina Medlin started a new [discussion on NDR organization](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/42).

Duncan Sparrel said we really don't to maintain the same text in several documents – avoid that pain!

## Tools and software build automation

Nothing new.  [Digital Engineering discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/41)

## New business

CMFTool has passed MITRE public release process and is ready for contribution.  

*Resolved:* Create a new repo for CMFTool – github.org/niemopen/cmftool.

