# NTAC minutes, 16 May 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-05-16-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Stephen Sullivan

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-05-09](2023-05-09-minutes.md) approved without change.

### Publication Process Project Note

- Waiting on publication
- [Open Tickets](https://issues.oasis-open.org/projects/TCADMIN/issues/TCADMIN-4352?filter=allopenissues)

### Technical Architecture Project Note

- Current status
  - Working Draft in the repo
    - https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/project-notes/docs/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02/tech-arch-v1.0-pn02.md
    - Should be `pn01`
    - [x] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to rename
    - [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Should we change the version to 6.0, to match?
    - But it's not just about NIEM 6.0
    - [[Chet Ensign]] comments suggest version should be 1.0?
    - [ ] Review and accept [[Jim Cabral]] pull request
    - Still need to pull principles into it
  - No new content or changes
  - [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Not a big priority, doesn't block the release
  - Related document from [[David Kemp|Dave Kemp]], [Understanding the NIEM Information Model](https://github.com/davaya/ntac-admin/blob/information-model/project-notes/docs/information-model-v1.0-pn01/information-model-v1.0.md)
    - #resolved [X] Accept the pull request
      - Read and discuss
      - Deals with difference between info modeling and data modeling
      - Motivation for supporting that approach
      - Potential for potential future roadmap work
      - [[Duncan Sparrell]]: Is some tooling for this existing?

### NDR Overhaul

- [NDR Principles discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/38)
- "What's New" document
  - Called "NIEM 6.0 Architectural Changes Project Note"
  - [ ] [[Kelly Cullinane]] to clarify the naming rules
  - Target date for this:
    - Draft mid-May
    - Release end of May
    - [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Delay release a week or so to allow [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to weigh in?
  - [ ] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] and [[Tom Carlson]] to make first cut, with [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] inputs
    - Started collecting up notes
    - [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] collecting bullets
    - [ ] [[Tom Carlson]] will post work-in-progress tomorrow and send notice on listserv

### Software Build Automation

- [Digital Engineering discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/41)
- Blocked by a whole lot of work on CMFTool, or until comments come in
- [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] Might be post-6.0 release
- [ ] Dig up old F2F notes on this

- [ ] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] to work on project plan for the tools, what's expected

### Role Revamp

- https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/6
- Cardinality conflicts between "roles" as new objects vs "roles" as extensions of Person (or whatever)
  - We already have similar issues due to the nature of the model, e.g. anything of PersonType will share the same cardinality
  - simpleCMF/XML/JSON helps at the message level by flattening types
- [x] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Make an example of what she's talking about because she has a better idea
  - Cardinality problems like this abound in the model anyway
  - Enforce cardinality at the message level
- [[Jim Cabral]] does not like the loss of cardinality control
- [[Mike Hulme]] the need for cardinality constraints is a bit overrated
- [[Joe Mierwa]] agrees with Mike
- [[Tom Carlson]] simplification, simpleCMF, solves for this

### NDR and External Standards

[[Duncan Sparrell]]: Propose to allow NIEM to incorporate other standards by reference, in addition to the current inclusion via adapters

- Include in agenda for next week
