# NTAC minutes, 28 February 2023

## [Agenda](2023-02-28-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-02-21](2023-02-21-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Publication Process project note

Christina Medlin is still making edits,  Some questions were discussed:

* What do we call core supplements?
* Can we use semantic versioning for version numbers?  Domains may introduce breaking changes in minor release; e.g. 5.0 -> 5.1.  Can this be consistent with semantic versioning?  Consider alternatives at future meeting.
* When to publish version 1 of the PN?  Jim Cabral said we need to run it past the NBAC for their comment.

## Wildcard augmentations

There is some concern whether all these architecture changes can be impleented in developer tools in time for the scheduled 6.0 version.  We should ask the PGB for priorities:  If we have to choose, does the PGB want us to take full advantage of this three-year opportunity to change the technical architecture, even if developer tool support arrives after 6.0 publication ?  Would they rather have developer tools, and leave some architecture changes for NIEM 7.0?  Or would they prefer to have both, with a later publication date?

## Technical architecture project notes

No questions or suggested changes.  A vote to publish is planned for the next meeting.

## NDR structure

- Need a discussion on what principles are needed.  Some of the current principles do not have an associated rule.  Jim Cabral will strt this discussion.
- How many NDRs do we need?  Pehaps
  1. Conceptual/CMF
  2. Bindings for each serialization
     1. XML
     2. JSON (JSON-LD for the RDF?)
     3. Turtle? Separate RDF binding, embedding it in the NDR like it is now makes it hard to read

## New business

At present a CMF file must include definitions for every component that is mentioned.  It is not possible to separate the complete NIEM model into one CMF file for the core, another for NIEM Justice, and so forth.  Is this a needed capability?  This is a new [issue](https://github.com/niemopen/common-model-format/issues/8) in the common-model-formatn repo.

## Action item review

- [ ] Draft NIEM 6 version timeline (Mike Douklias)
- [x] Organization README page for github.com/niemopen requested (Christina Medlin) & created (Kelly Cullinane)
- [x] Draft of *Understanding the NIEM Technical Architecture* in Project Note format (Scott Renner)
- [ ] *Wildcard Augmentations in NIEM 6* distributed via NTAC mailing list (Scott Renner), reviewed by NTAC (all)
- [x] Tom and Christina determine where to track the deliverables in NIEM 6
- [ ] Review new issue in CMF repo – do we need to split across multiple CMF files?
