# NTAC minutes, 14 February 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-02-07-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-02-07](2023-02-07-minutes.md) were approved without change

## CTAS

Should we maintain CTAS as a separate specification?  Some extra work, and it could be merged into utility schemas.  *Resolved:* maintain as separate spec.

## Wildcard augmentations

The paper [*Attribute Augmentations and IC-ISM in NIEM 6*](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/AttributeAugmentations-230118.md) led Dr. Scott to write a larger paper, [Wildcard Augmentations in NIEM 6](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/documents/WildcardAugmentations-230203.md).  The basic idea is to use wildcards for elements to replace substitution groups, thus simplifying the NDR.  It depends on making a big distinction between reference schemas and message schemas; reference schema are loose, message schemas are tight.  It also depends to some extent on developer tooling.  Some discussion at the meeting; no resolution; expect future discussion in the ntac-admin repo in the "Discussions" tab.

## Publication Process Project Note

Remaining issues to resolve:

1. [Use of "NIEM Open"](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/issues/8)
2. [v6.0 artifacts](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/issues/10)

*Resolved:*  At the 2023-02-21 meeting we will hold a vote to approve the current draft as a Projec Note. 

## GTRI Resource Impacts for 2023

Brought to the attention of the NTAC:

- GTRI resources to diminish substantially between now and the end of September
- Unknown what, if any, will be available after September
- NIEM 6 is a bigger lift than NIEM 5 was, but with fewer resources available

At present the GTRI contributions are funded by Joint Staff J6, not the PGB.
