# NTAC minutes, 9 May 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-05-09-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [ ] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [x] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Stephen Sullivan

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-04-25](2023-04-25-minutes.md) were approved with an addition to the NIEM 5.2 release bullet.

## Publication process PN

- Now goes to TSC administrators, post linking back to these minutes
- They'll do the final formatting and push to the OASIS site
  - [x] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] to submit request
    - https://www.oasis-open.org/project-administration-support-requests/form-publish-an-approved-note/

### Wildcard Augmentations

- [Wildcard Augmentations discussion board](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/32)
- Status of next CMF version:
  - Will have attribute wildcards, but not element ones.
  - Augmentation instead of metadata attributes
- [ ] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to incorporate latest changes in the CMFTool

### Technical Architecture Project Note

- No new content or changes
- Related document from [[David Kemp|Dave Kemp]], [Understanding the NIEM Information Model](https://github.com/davaya/ntac-admin/blob/information-model/project-notes/docs/information-model-v1.0-pn01/information-model-v1.0.md)
  - #resolved [ ] Accept the pull request
  - Read and discuss at next meeting

### CMFTool

[[Duncan Sparrell]]: Consider preserving the 5.2 support
[[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]]: That's the plan.  CMFTool can read XSD from NIEM v3,4,5 and that won't change.

### Role properties

- [x] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to work up a bigger example
- [x] https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/6

- Cardinality conflicts between "roles" as new objects vs "roles" as extensions of Person (or whatever)
  - We already have similar issues due to the nature of the model, e.g. anything of PersonType will share the same cardinality
  - simpleCMF/XML/JSON helps at the message level by flattening types
- [ ] [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Make an example of what she's talking about because she has a better idea
  - Cardinality problems like this abound in the model anyway
  - Enforce cardinality at the message level

## New Business

### NDR and External Standards

[[Duncan Sparrell]]: Propose to allow NIEM to incorporate other standards by reference, in addition to the current inclusion via adapters

- Include in agenda for next week

### NDR and Codes

- [[Christina Medlin|CM]] Do codes both ways, with the simple type still available for unioning
  - In reference schema? Or just in extensions?
- [[Jennifer Stathakis]] Fingerprinting codes combined in different ways as valid
- Unique codes is Issue #26
- Current thinking is:
  - Still support simple types for unioning
  - Keep in references
  - Allow different rules for message schemas
  - Require unique codes
    - Fix up code tables that have dupes

### `nc:ObjectType`?

https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/58

Need a universal base type for ISM attributes. Add `ObjectType` into niem-core so it can get into the CMF without including `structures` itself? (Because `structures` is XML-specific plumbing.)

[[Christina Medlin|CM]] Could make it a conformant type?
[[Jim Cabral]] Big change that impacts everything, so we need a _really good_ reason to make the change.

## Action Item Review

- [ ] NTAC TSC review of Technical Architecture PN
- [ ] NTAC TSC review of [[David Kemp|Dave Kemp]]'s paper, [Understanding the NIEM Information Model](https://github.com/davaya/ntac-admin/blob/information-model/project-notes/docs/information-model-v1.0-pn01/information-model-v1.0.md)

- [ ] Add project note folders where needed
- [ ] Add the deadline for the NIEM 6.0 Architectural Changes Project Note to the project board

- Declarations with type from `structures` namespace
  - `cbrn:DataFileMetadata` and `cbrn:CaseMetadata`
  - No good purpose, or good CMF representation
  - Let's make a new NDR rule that says you can't have `<xs:element type="structures:…`?
  - [x] [[Scott Renner|Dr. Scott]] to post as an NDR issue [(#29)](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/29)
