# NTAC minutes, 11 July 2023 (draft)

## [Agenda](2023-07-11-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [ ] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Stephen Sullivan

## **Previous minutes**  

[Minutes for 2023-06-27](2023-06-27-minutes.md) approved without change.

## New business

Talked about new discussion: [URIs and IDs and REFs, Oh My! (#63)](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/63) â€“ how to make reference attributes required on some elements and not allowed on others.  Consensus after discussion:

* We need/want local type definitions in message schema documents
* We may need a SubsetSchemaDocument conformance target.  Impact on NDR still unknown
* We should renamce "constraint schema" to "message schema". Don't need a conformance target for message schema documents.
* We need a way to label the schema document that is authoritative for a namespace, but that doesn't have to be a conformance target assertaion.  Could use @version.

