# NTAC minutes, 21 February 2023

## [Agenda](2023-02-23-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis

## **Previous minutes:**  

[Minutes for 2023-02-14](2023-02-14-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Comments from the chair

Jim Cabral introduced Joe Mierwa, a new member of NTAC.

## NIEMOpen Publication Process

There are three kinds of NIEM software:

1. Software needed to create the version artifacts
2. Software that is part of the specification; e.g. Schematron rules for the NDR
3. Software that users need after the specification is published; e.g. SSGT, CMFTool

Christina Medlin:  #1 is critical path for NIEM version publication, #3 can come later.

Jim Cabral:  #2 is normative part of a NIEM version.

*Resolved:*  Complete list of artifacts in a NIEM release does not belong in this PN.  Tom and Christina to figure out how to post that list elsewhere.

*Resolved:*  The complete list of NIEM release artifacts can include software artifacts.

*Resolved:*  Software artifacts that are normative parts of the specification (e.g. NDR Schematron) are part of a published NIEM version.

*Resolved:*  Developer-tool software can change between NIEM version publications and does not have to be part of a published NIEM version.

## Wildcard augmentations

Christina Medlin suggested adding a wildcard element to ObjectType and AssociationType in the structures namespace, and then we would not need augmentation points at all.

Scott Renner thought that augmentation points are still necessary, will explore and generate [discussion & examples](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/32?sort=new#discussioncomment-5091246).

Members encouraged to read the [discussion](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/discussions/32?sort=new#discussioncomment-5027449) in the ntac-admin repo.  Look at [examples](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/tree/main/examples) only if you want to see all the details.

## NTAC process

Christina showed the [NTAC issue tracker](https://github.com/orgs/niemopen/projects/2) in the [niemopen community page](https://github.com/niemopen).
Duncan:  project specifications that will evolve should iterate through PSDs (like alphas)

Kelly:  PNs record TSC consensus, don't require PSB approval but PSB should be informed.

## New business

There is a new discussion in ntac-admin concerning two patterns for message extensions.  Read and participate there.

