# NTAC minutes, 2 January 2024 (draft)

No agenda available in advance.

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [x] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes for the [2023-11-28 meeting](2023-11-28-minutes.md) approved without change.

## New business

1.	I have a pretty good UML class diagram for the metamodel, and I’m part way through banging out the class, attribute, and relationship documentation.  Attached.  Take a quick look now, save the detailed review for a complete draft later this week.  
    a. SchemaDocument objects are gone; all properties moved to Namespace.  The UML model  with SchemaDocument was unbearably stupid.
    b. There are no attributes in the Model class, even though it’s easy to imagine some things you might like to know about a Model (author, version, date, etc.).  Why?  Because there’s no place for them in the XSD representation.  All we have in XSD are schema documents for namespaces.

2.	Schema documents are a great configuration item for NIEM models in XSD.  We need to think through the equivalent configuration items for NIEM models in CMF.  What does the CMF file for the justice domain’s model look like? 

3.	We have to do a NIEM 6 model PS02 anyway, so I want to think about possible additions:
    a. structures:qname – I think it is useful for messages with URIs and limited bandwidth.  Also makes a partial CMF file a lot nicer to look at.
    b. A new appinfo element for attribute augmentations.  Right now if namespace X augments Y with an attribute, there’s nothing in the X schema document to record that.
