# NTAC minutes, 8 October 2024

Agenda: [2024-10-08 agenda](2024-10-08-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Darcy Staley
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2024-10-01 meeting](2024-10-01-minutes.md) were approved.

## Standards Process Timeline
- We targeting a release of 6.0 by December 15 with the following normative Artifacts
    ○ Model PS02
    ○ NDR PSD01
- This will be followed by non-normative guidance including the Message Specification Specification

## NDR rewrite
- Reviewed Dr. Scott's [proposal on attribute augmentations](https://lists.oasis-open-projects.org/g/niemopen-ntactsc/attachment/725/1/AttributeAugmentation-241003.pdf)
    - Agreed to add attribute wildcards to structures to support the subsetting rule

- Discussed [Feedback from Christina](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/blob/dev/ndr-feedback.md)
    - Agreed to add Type as a parent of Class and Datatype and allow restrictions and/or extensions
    - Why didn't we recommend using JSON Schema directly?
        - Dr. Scott will write an explanation
    - Message vs message type cs message formats
        - Dr. Scott shared his example
        - Jim will add his definitions to Sec 3.1
    - Agreed to add Aliases to CMF to support simple names

## Next Steps
    - Dr. Scott will update Section 4
    - Everyone should review the attribute augmentations paper
