# NTAC minutes, 13 February 2024 (draft)

### [Agenda](2024-02-13-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes for the [2024-02-06 meeting](2024-02-06-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## NDR Reorganization

* Discussed
  * Tom Carlson's outline for the reorg process
  * Scott Renner's thoughts on what must be written, need not be written, etc.

* *Resolved*: schematron moves to appendix or something, marked informative
* *Resolved:* document title remains *Naming and Design Rules* 
* Some things must be written but can wait until later
  * RDF entailments

* Needed ASAP
  * Outline for main document and sub documents.
  * Architecture overview section

* Plan: have an additional telcon to work on the outline
  * Volunteers: Scott Renner, Jennifer Stathakis, Mike Hulme, Joe Mierwa


