# NTAC minutes, 3 December 2024

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [ ] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Darcy Staley 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2024-11-26 meeting](2024-11-26-minutes.md) were approved without change

## NDR rewrite

* What's left to do in model PS02?
  * Copyright notice in xs:documentation
  * Conformance target URIs changed from XNDR to NDR
  * Other changes are already in the dev branch
* Pretty sure there will be a NDR PSD02 or PS02
* What about schematron rules?
  * Most NDR5 rules need only to have the new NDR6 rule number
  * Some new NDR6 rules do not have schematron yet; won't write these until all the NDR6 rules are drafted
  * Need all of these rules before releasing model PS02, so that we can be sure the model passes all of the rules
  * We could have schematron rules for CMF, but I would rather write code in CMFTool to do those tests
* What's left for NDR6?
  * Remaining rules for XML and JSON messages (section 11)
  * Rest of section 5 (modeling patterns):
    * 5.1 Meaning of NIEM data
    * 5.2 Identifiers and references in NIEM messages
    * 5.3 Atomic classes and datatypes
    * 5.4 Augmentation
    * 5.5 Roles
    * 5.6 Metadata
    * 5.7 Representation pattern
    * 5.8 Container objects
  * Definitions
    * Not all written yet
    * Which ones need the funky dot links?  Everything mentioned in a conformance rule, for sure
  * References and reference links
  * Boilerplate as neeeded
* The PLAN
  * A pretty good draft ready by Friday COB
  * Review over Monday and the weekend
  * Send comments that don't need discussion by email
  * Talk about comments that need discussion at the 10 Dec meeting
  * Approve PSD01 for release at the 17 Dec meeting
