# NTAC minutes, 1 October 2024 (draft)

Agenda: [2024-10-01 agenda](2024-10-1-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Darcy Staley
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2024-09-24 meeting](2024-09-24-minutes.md) were approved.

## NDR rewrite
- Feedback from Jennifer
    - Dr. Scott incorporated these changes [commit diff](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/commit/9127313c4f38b3e504890bd79576452d93e577c8)

- Discussed [Feedback from Christina](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/blob/dev/ndr-feedback.md)
    - General Questions
        - Need spell check
        - Add TODO for things to be updated later
        - Remove use of "constraints"
        - Defer style questions (smart quotes?)
    - Section 1
        -  Need to update definitions
    - Section 3
        - Message vs Message type vs Message format
        - Elaborate, add list various syntaxes
        - Do we need a Type that is the basis of Class and Datatype?
    - Next Steps
        - Christina will update definitions
        - Jim will update Section 3
        - Dr. Scott will update Section 4
