# NTAC minutes, 5 November 2024 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2024-10-29 meeting](2024-10-29-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## NDR rewrite

* Do we need to support xs:restriction?
  * Jennifer has used xs:restriction in an extension schema, but it wasn't essential.  Examples for next week.
  * Useful if your data model needs FooSubClass1 and FooSubClass2 of FooClass with different subsets of optional properties.  Those subclasses should be meaningful, otherwise just hack out a subset schema.
  * Without xs:restriction, the alternative is FooProp1 and FooProp2 with different subsets of FooClass properties.  
  * There is no way to do either of these things in CMF at present.
  * Don't rip out restriction just yet.  Jennifer to bring example for discussion next week.
  * Is this juice worth the squeeze?

* OASIS copyright in schema document comments
  * NIEM-conforming schema documents SHOULD NOT include comments.

  * Comments do not appear in CMF.  CMFTool ignores them.

  * Better to have copyright *and licence* text in schema-level appinfo.  Second best to have both comment block and appinfo.

  * Tom Carlson to ask OASIS: what is acceptable here?

  * Move comment block to a new documentation element. Put license into block. Tom to investigate OASIS-acceptable text. Try to get all copies of the reference schemas to be the same.

* Everybody:  Work on punchlist, things that must be done for PSD01 by 15 December.

