# NTAC minutes, 9 April 2024

### [Agenda](2024-04-09-agenda.md)

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes for the [2024-04-02 meeting](2024-04-02-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## PS02 Status

* Is it necessary to put 6.0.1 in the namespace URIs?  Consensus is "no".
* Ready for PGB to vote *to proceed* with approving PS02. Notification, two-week review to follow.

## PGB update

* NTAC update slides were reviewed

### NDR rewrite

* No progress this week â€“ next week for sure!

### CMFTool status

* CMF version 1.0-alpha.2 is posted on the *main* branch in the repo
* Next version of CMFTool will be posted before the next meeting
* Augmentation examples are done, will be posted to *ntac-admin* before the next meeting

