# NTAC minutes, 6 February 2024 (draft)

No agenda available in advance.

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [x] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kelly Cullinane
- [ ] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Mike Douklias
- [ ] Chet Ensign
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Lavdjola Farrington
- [ ] Dave Hardy
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes for the [2024-01-30 meeting](2024-01-30-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

* The [issue tracker](https://github.com/orgs/niemopen/projects/2) is back!
* NDR reorganization is high priority.  Tom Carlson posted an outline of the steps to a reorganized NIEM 6 NDR:  [issue #41](https://github.com/niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules/issues/41).  Everyone please read the discussion there, and come prepared to make decisions at the next meeting.
* Meeting consensus: We want the new NDR to be useful for explanation, and not just a normative specification.  Scott Renner suggests looking at the W3C's [JSON-LD](https://www.w3.org/TR/json-ld11/) recommendation as an example.  (We can't get their typography with Github Markdown, but we could attempt their methodical explanation combined with normative content.)
* Where the [data modeling paper](https://github.com/niemopen/ntac-admin/blob/main/project-notes/docs/data-modeling-pn01/data-modeling-1.0-pn01.md) fits into the new NDR is TBD.  Another thing to review, and prepare to discuss.
* We need to go over the Schematron rules in the NDR.  We'll need good text descriptions.  ChatGPT can help.  There are some new rules in NIEM 6 that don't yet have Schematron; we'll need that.

