# NTAC minutes, 17 December 2024 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [x] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2024-12-10 meeting](2024-12-10-minutes.md) were corrected to add David Kemp and Joe Mierwa to the attendees.

## NDR rewrite

* *Resolved:* NTAC will vote to send NDR6 PSD01 to the PGB for approval
  * Final PSD01 to be posted to the main branch of the NDR repo by COB 19 December
  * NTAC vote will be by mail.  Suspense is 30 December.
* Some things to fix:
  * Abstract is copied from NDR5, is XML specific
  * "National Information Exchange Model" still appears where it should not
  * Move CSS <style> element to end of *ndr6src.md*
  * Fix *Makefile* to generate an authoritative *ndr-v6.0-psd01.md* 
