# NTAC minutes, 22 April 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Elena Harner
- [x] Brian Harrig
- [x] Jim Herbert
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Darcy Staley 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-04-15 meeting](2025-04-15-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

* Introducing new member, Jim Herbert
*  Working group to review the governance model

  * Mike Hulme volunteers to join the work group
  * Jim Herbert interested in learning more
* What else is required after the completion of PS02 to advance to an OASIS standard

  * Move NDR to a Project Specification Draft
* Message specification guidance

  * Recommended file layout for a message catalog

  *  Tools & Training available: CMF, MEP, Training and LMS
* Measures for Justice

  * How NIEM can help enable MFJ's goals,

  * How MFJ may be able to help NTAC+NBAC develop model components useful for describing quality.
