# NTAC minutes, 29 July 2025

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Josh Cohen
- [x] Kevin Cressman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Larry Feldman
- [x] Elena Harner
- [ ] Brian Harrig
- [ ] Jim Herbert
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Darcy Staley 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [ ] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-07-22 meeting](2025-07-22-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

* Reviewing discussion paper regarding Augmentation rules in NDR 6 [Augmentation rules in NDR 6 · Issue #48 · niemopen/niem-naming-design-rules](https://urldefense.us/v2/url?u=https-3A__github.com_niemopen_niem-2Dnaming-2Ddesign-2Drules_issues_48&d=DwMF-g&c=Al8V6E3U0yBSSEuVtdZbGtsvjPA49U3WmtZAsdW0D_Q&r=ZM6yFL4cNV2bF3fyeJ0QYg&m=1nJNPpHTDW8M1hRM-8UqAbcF0LI0FYEGbTvxB8yn46uYbDLHkCIdvLhr7slB-m5h&s=kw7A6GxWmto5ZkuDpL7yBhLvARKtfBuQjYMh5NjYG0E&e=)

* NTAC co-chairs propose to put current NDR draft before the PGB for approval

  o  No objections. Dr Scott will make final draft ready in Main branch for submission to PGB.

  o  Any outstanding individual review to occur in the next few days. After submission to PGB, document will be locked.

* Schematron rules:
  *  Rules for XML schema directory is not yet complete; some rules not yet written, others need test cases.
  * Rules should be consolidated into a single document to validate schema document piles
