# NTAC minutes, 7 January 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Duncan Sparrell
- [ ] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2024-12-31 meeting](2024-12-31-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## NDR rewrite

* Still some TODOs for PS01 â€“ RDF entailments the biggest of these
* Still need to convert the Schematron rules from NIEM 5 to NIEM 6
* PSD01 sent to PGB for approval vote

## Other specifications

* Message specification specification?  Maybe just guidance?
  * Still don't want the "Message Specification Specification". 
    (But "MS-squared" sounds kinda cool.)
  * Could be called the Message Package Description (MPD) specification
  * Perhaps begin with guidance / tutorial, then write specification

* For next week: read the message spec discussion paper in the NTAC repo

## New business

* Future discussions about expansion of model or mapping to accommodate new domains
