# NTAC minutes, 28 October 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kevin Cressman
- [x] Larry Feldman
- [x] Elena Harner
- [x] Brian Harrig
- [ ] Jim Herbert
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Chris Jackson
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Michael Klosterman
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] James Shafer 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli 

## Previous minutes

Minutes from several previous meetings ([2025-08-26](2025-08-26-minutes.md), [2025-09-02](2025-09-02-minutes.md), [2025-09-30](2025-09-30-minutes.md), [2025-10-07](2025-10-07-minutes.md), and [2025-10-14](2025-10-14-minutes.md)) were approved without change.

## Old business

* Still intending a virtual f2f in late november or early december
  - Scott Renner to coordinate dates through whenisgood.net
  - Need technical issues for agenda

* Paul Wormeli asked for NTAC advice on release tempo for the 4 dec PGB.

* Paul Wormeli and IGIS Institute are formulating survey questionnaire for NIEM end users and system implementers; intend to administer by first of the year

## New business

* Mentioned the [Simple Standard for Sharing Ontology Mappings](https://github.com/mapping-commons/sssom/) as a standard for representing NIEM component mappings

* How to contribute Jim Cabral's BOUML tool extension to NIEMOpen?
  - There is no license for the underlying BOUML tool

* Postpone reveal if shutdown continues?  NTAC thinks no.

* Next meeting 11 nov
  - Discuss release tempo
