# NTAC minutes, 11 March 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [ ] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [x] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Darcy Staley 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-03-04 meeting](2025-03-04-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

* NDR PSD01
  * Ready for publication; Dr. Scott to commit current version to repo main branch and provide link to OASIS
  * Some NIEM 5 and NIEM 6 rules are hard to test because they depend on providing an XML Catalog file to the processor.  Dr. Scott wrote the *scheval* command-line tool which does the right thing.  Will eventually be commited to CMFTool repo, but anyone can have it now on request.
  * A failed demonstration of the schematron rule test suite, because Dr. Scott did not remember that *sch/bin/dotest* is the script to run.  (It works fine.)
  * Most rules do not have test cases.  They are easy to write, and a quick look at any file in the *rtest* directory will show you how to do it.
* Model PS02 is ready in the dev branch.  Everyone to review.  At 18 March meeting NTAC will decide whether to recommend PGB hold approval vote.
* NIEM MilOps change request
  * Approved by domain in February.
  * How to make available before 6.1 version?
* NDR PSD02 or PS01
  * Need for some changes to PSD01 exposed by CMFTool development; for example, handling xs:any and xs:anyAttribute elements.
