# NTAC minutes, 04 March 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [ ] Scott Renner
- [ ] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [ ] Paul Wormeli

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-02-25 meeting](2025-02-25-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

*	New dates pending for NBAC-NTAC meeting
*	Final discussion of OASIS license language; OASIS general counsel recommended acceptance of the language Nov 25th. Matter considered closed.
*	Mr. Sullivan asking about generating table of contents programmatically. 
  *	VS Code has plugins to generate TOC automatically from markdown
  *	Jim to confirm with Kelly; Christina to generate with vs code.
*	Christina has made updates to model and NDR, including Dr Scott’s changes to Utility schemas. Christina to share.
  *	Schematron rules are not fully compiling 
  *	David Kemp – OASIS publishes standards in markdown, html, and pdf. 
  *	Others are generated from markdown. 
  *	David has generated using Pandoc to reformat, OASIS trying to move away from this tool. 
  *	OASIS exploring github actions to automate
*	Suggesting NTAC planning face-to-face, perhaps after NBAC-NTAC meeting
