# NTAC minutes, 14 October 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kevin Cressman
- [x] Larry Feldman
- [x] Elena Harner
- [x] Brian Harrig
- [x] Jim Herbert
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [x] Chris Jackson
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Michael Klosterman
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] James Shafer 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli 

## New business

* Review of NIEMOpen plenary meeting

* Change in NTAC meeting tempo
  - Resolved to meet biweekly thru 2025
  - Next meeting will be 28 oct

* Proposed virtual face-to-face meeting in late November or early December
  - Two half-day VTCs
  - Collecting technical questions

* Chris Jackson (EY) demonstrated a working JSON exchange
  - To be part of NIEM Reveal in November

* Paul Wormli asked for NTAC guidance concerning NIEM release tempo
  - NTAC to propose a policy to PGB by 4 December meeting


