# NTAC minutes, 11 November 2025

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kevin Cressman
- [x] Larry Feldman
- [ ] Elena Harner
- [ ] Brian Harrig
- [x] Jim Herbert
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Chris Jackson
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Michael Klosterman
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [ ] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] James Shafer 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [ ] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli 

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-10-28 meeting](2025-10-28-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Old business

* NIEM release tempo
  - Need a proposed release schedule for the 4 December meeting

* Version management
  - Current practice is a new namespace identifier for any schema document change
  - Proposed practice is a new identifier only for breaking change
  - Non-breaking change handled through the @version attribute

* Tools
  - CMFTool v1.0 is published, no significant change since
  - Expect GTRI tool work to be completed by end November

## New business

* Jim Cabral elected as NTAC voting representative to PGB.

