# NTAC minutes, 26 August 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [x] Kevin Cressman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Larry Feldman
- [ ] Elena Harner
- [ ] Brian Harrig
- [x] Jim Herbert
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Michael Klosterman
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [ ] Darcy Staley 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-08-19 meeting](2025-08-19-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

* We are proceeding to OASIS Standard for model and NDR
  * Need statement of use by 9 September
    * CMFTool is one
    * NIEM-Tools is another
    * not sure about the third
* NTAC representative will be voting for Paul Wormeli for PGB chair at next PGB meeting.
* NTAC plans to vote to replace Scott Renner with Jim Cabral as our PGB voting member at our next meeting
* Discussed the new data provenance OASIS committee
  * We should incorporate their data elements in niem model
  * May already be much overlap
  * Should invite them to brief NTAC

