# NTAC minutes, 9 December 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [ ] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kevin Cressman
- [ ] Larry Feldman
- [x] Elena Harner
- [ ] Brian Harrig
- [ ] Jim Herbert
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Chris Jackson
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Michael Klosterman
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [x] Scott Renner
- [ ] James Shafer 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli 

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-11-25 meeting](2025-11-25-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## Old business

* The PGB expressed appreciation for NTAC's work in achieving OASIS standard status for version 6.0 and the NDR.

## New business

* Discussed a proposed collaboration with the Basic Formal Ontology (BFO) community on data integration, data quality, and information-sharing initiatives across their respective communities.  A draft announcement of this collaboration was reviewed and approved.

  - Paul Wormeli to take the announcement to publication
  - April Mitchell to share the annoucement with Josh Holcomb

* The forensics domain launch was praised by Jim Cabral and Elena Harner.  Jennifer Stathakis explained her role as an ombudsman for the biometrics and forensics domains, highlighting her responsibilities in maintaining alignment with standards and promoting consensus. 

* Next meeting is 6 January 2026.