# NTAC minutes, 8 July 2025

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Josh Cohen
- [x] Kevin Cressman
- [x] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Larry Feldman
- [x] Elena Harner
- [ ] Brian Harrig
- [x] Jim Herbert
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [ ] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [x] Darcy Staley 
- [ ] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [ ] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-07-01 meeting](2025-07-01-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

* Published new CMFTool 1.0-alpha.5 version, with complete support for augmentations.
* Also pushed augmentation examples to ntac-admin repo
* Revised augmentation section 4.16 in NDR6 – this is ready for review
* Still items to move from NIEM.gov repo to OASIS repo; Shunda to provide a list of what has moved and to where it has been moved

* NMO/NBAC asking NTAC co-chairs if there is guidance about adding; NIEMOpen publication process 1.0 includes guidance from 2023
  * Katherine asking NTAC to review and update this guidance document, especially as we may be more flexible on release schedule or have different roles like ‘maintainer’

  * Who is responsible for actually merging? Still to be determined

* NTAC/NBAC/NMO to review roles and responsibilities for model harmonization, maintaining model and the repos, guidance, and the rest

* NTAC to discuss how members would like older model versions to be available in the repo; currently older versions are available for download as a zip or tar

* NTAC members to consider agenda items for an in-person (virtual-option) meeting, to align with National Press Club virtual event October 8th  

