# NTAC minutes, 20 May 2025

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [ ] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [x] Kevin Cressman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Elena Harner
- [ ] Brian Harrig
- [x] Jim Herbert
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [ ] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [ ] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [x] Beth Smalley
- [x] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-05-13 meeting](2025-05-13-minutes.md) were not available.

## New business

* 6.0 Beta training was conducted May 6-8. 
  * 21 participants, lots of positive feedback. found a few bugs, 28 lessons with many quizzes.
  * Current training is aimed at developers and focused on XML. Working on an executive track, and also training focused on JSON.
  * Requesting testers: Please send any lessons learned/gaps/wishlist items/questions which didn't get answered or follow-up info to [Beth Smalley](mailto:beth.l.smalley.civ@mail.mil) and CC [Darcy Staly](mailto:darcy.a.staley.civ@mail.mil) .
* CMFTool will soon have ability to produce RDF from CMF models.
* Next PGB meeting is Thursday, 29 May.  Motions on the agenda:
  - NTAC supports the motion to $100k of available funding to bring Christina and Tom back under contract. tasks have been sent to OASIS and GTRI contract team(s).
  - NTAC supports advancing NIEM Model PS02 to an OASIS standard
  - NTAC supports advancing NDR to a Project Specification; timeline to be determined
* MilOps Subcommittee is requesting use cases and POCs; please send to: [Beth Smalley](mailto:beth.l.smalley.civ@mail.mil) and [Darcy Staly](mailto:darcy.a.staley.civ@mail.mil)
