# NTAC minutes, 11 February 2025 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [ ] Nicholas Ballard
- [ ] Aubrey Beach
- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [x] Tom Carlson
- [x] Chuck Chipman
- [ ] Katherine Escobar
- [x] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Eric Jahn
- [x] David Kemp
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [x] Shunda Louis
- [ ] Peter Madruga
- [x] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [ ] Carl Nelson
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer
- [ ] Beth Smalley
- [x] Darcy Staley 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [x] Stephen Sullivan
- [x] Josh Wilson

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-02-04 meeting](2025-02-04-minutes.md) were approved without change.

## New business

* A presentation from Huges Seureau (GenHax) on a proposed future NIEMOpen hackathon
  * Need good estimates on availability dates for API 2.0, CMFTool for the timetable
* EO 14168 and the NIEM 6.0 model
  * Model change decisions are not a NTAC responsibility

  * How to put changes into effect?  Does it take a v6.1?  This is an NTAC issue.

  * NBAC will discuss at their next meeting

  * PGB chair wants a combined NTAC / NBAC recommendation

* Plan for next face-to-face meeting
  * How would this fit with the NIEMOpen reveal in maybe October?
  * Perhaps two half-day VTCs between now and April?


