# NTAC minutes, 6 January 2026 (draft)

No agenda available in advance

## Attending

- [x] Brad Bolliger
- [x] Jim Cabral
- [ ] Tom Carlson
- [ ] Kevin Cressman
- [ ] Larry Feldman
- [ ] Elena Harner
- [ ] Brian Harrig
- [ ] Jim Herbert
- [ ] Mike Hulme
- [ ] Chris Jackson
- [ ] David Kemp
- [ ] Michael Klosterman
- [x] Vamsi Kondannagari
- [ ] Christina Medlin
- [x] April Mitchell
- [x] Joe Mierwa
- [x] Stephen Pugh
- [x] Scott Renner
- [x] James Shafer 
- [x] Jennifer Stathakis
- [ ] Ryan Triplett
- [x] Josh Wilson
- [x] Paul Wormeli 

## Previous minutes

Minutes from the [2025-12-09 meeting](2025-12-09-minutes.md) were corrected for attendance and then approved without other changes.

## New business

* NTAC's proposed release schedule was presented at the 4 December PGB meeting.  It was received favorably.  Not yet final.

* Need to identify 2026 planned tasks for NTAC. Several possible NTAC tasks are listed in described in the "Planning for Collaboration" briefing from the 4 December PGB meeting.
  - Publish V6.0 as an OASIS standard
  - Publish V6.0 as an ISO Standard 
  - Deploy and test full tools suite
  - Incorporate new domains
  - Establish a new release life cycle
  - Determine the content of V7.0
  - Implement AI based Support Services
  - Automate model management using AI
  - Internationalize NIEMOpen Model and assets

* Code list bindings and default values
  - How to connect a code list class in CMF and XSD to the URI in a Genericode code list?
  - Default value for `cli:codeListURI`?

* References to augmentation elements in XML messages
  - Useful to avoid repeating same augmentation element many times
  - Not a priority for NIEM XML-to-JSON translator

* NIEM 6 to ISO
  - Need to hear from oasis to find out what's needed
  - We should start now with 6.0, perhaps swap in v6.1 later

* Beneficial ownership 
  - Stephen Abbot Pugh introduced to NTAC
  - Has experience with data standards for beneficial ownership
  - Could become a domain, or new components for existing domains

* Status of MEPBuilder tool
  - Decide whether to complete existing tool or seek alternatives

* AI-enhanced helpdesk services?

* Using external components in NIEM models
  - Dr. Scott to propose an alternative to the existing adapter approach

